Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: Super brief introduction. I'll let Sylvia finish the introduction. But this is part 2 of fundraising. So we didn't originally have this session. But you guys had so much engagement during the 1st one that I thought it was better to slow down with the material. So this is our bonus session, where we're gonna finish the material to answer questions.
Lilliana Robinson: I'll hand it over to Sylvia.
Lilliana Robinson: Neil and I will be here to pepper in.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, awesome. Can you guys all see this? Well.
Sylvia Bouloutas: yeah, okay, cool. Alright, great. So I think this is around where we sort of ended off right around how funds evaluate deals we had sort of talked about. We talked about kind of the larger mega funds and kind of limitations, with maybe just focusing on those funds, and how it important is to run kind of this holistic process right around a lot of different types of funds and not just target the sequoise of the world.
Sylvia Bouloutas: So here, you know, we talked a little bit about this last time, but I'll just
Sylvia Bouloutas: and Neil and I can just continue to touch upon this right like sometimes it's a non partner that's not a bad thing.
Sylvia Bouloutas: They can be great advocates for your business. And that's going to be usually the person who's going to take that 1st call. The second call.
Sylvia Bouloutas: You're gonna have kind of that more comprehensive review of your product, your team. There could be several team members in this call, deeper discussion on go to market. There might be a demo involved, etc. And then the 3rd call is really that kind of partner meeting where it's going to focus on your traction team dynamics, and future vision of your company. So a lot of that is, you know, how is your company going to become a billion dollar company is, you know, what's going to be covered, especially with what that's especially what the partners care about
Sylvia Bouloutas: Neil. Anything to add.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I just want to say good morning to everybody.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah. Hi, everyone.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What's up? I know we came in hot there on the phone just a few minutes ago, like talking about this, and she's like excited to help you all with fundraising. So I I appreciate it. Yeah, it's good. But also it's just weird being back on Zoom. Now that I know how tall everybody is, so but I see George hanging out in the office. Kevin's in there. This is good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and anybody who's not in the room right now, I'm sure. Hopefully the recording will be helpful. But like, Liliana said, we've never done a part 2 of this in the 1st week before. I guess going into the second week now. But hopefully, this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: helps address any remaining questions, so we only have a few more slides left
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to go through. I think that Sylvia is going to lead us through
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the the remaining time is to have a discussion as a group
Neal Sáles-Griffin: about overall fundraising strategy to identify any and all thoughts you might have about how to utilize tech stars over the next few months to do it, and beyond, as well as maybe anything else that you'd want to just talk through as a group that would be helpful. So I just thought I would set that context. Sylvia.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Thank you. That's very helpful. Okay, great.
Sylvia Bouloutas: We can continue with this. And, as Neil said, feel free to also interrupt and kind of jump in with any questions you have. I know it's a little bit more like stranger on Zoom. It's harder to, you know. Just do that. But you're free to just either put them in the chat or you know, just
Sylvia Bouloutas: Florida, or raise your hand and ask a question. And that way. We can kind of make sure to to get everything. So
Sylvia Bouloutas: moving from this we're going to talk a little bit about diligence. So I'm sure you guys have. Some of you have gone through it. Some of you have performed it at different roles of yours in the past, and you've definitely all heard about it. So this will be the process where a fund is really taking you seriously. And they really want to get to know your business in a deeper way. So this is after those kind of initial meetings, right?
Sylvia Bouloutas: And you're going to start a process that they call due diligence, where they really kind of dig through a lot of different aspects of your business. So some of it is that financial due diligence they may rebuild your financial model right, depending on what metrics you've shared with them. They're, gonna you know, kind of assess the model, and maybe put their own assumptions and burn rate and their own projections, you know. Given what they know about the market.
Sylvia Bouloutas: there's a legal due diligence aspect as well where they're gonna dig through your cap table. They're gonna dig through kind of your IP, whatever kind of incorporation documents you have. Just make sure that it's all professional, and it's all there, and it all exists. And this, you know, a lot of this is in one funds asked for your data room. So a lot of this, these materials will live in your data room.
Sylvia Bouloutas: and then there's technical due diligence.
Sylvia Bouloutas: So, depending on how technical your product is, dependent on what fund they may also conduct a technical due diligence where they're really kind of diving into the the, you know, the products code, the infrastructure. Really, like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: you know, trying to understand. You know the tech that you're building, and make sure that it really has legs. And then they'll do customer calls. So this is a huge part of my old job. And it's a huge part of how Vcs evaluate how serious customers
Sylvia Bouloutas: like are with your business. So
Sylvia Bouloutas: what they're gonna do is they're gonna you know, you're gonna give them a customer pipeline that all lives in your data room. And they're gonna just get on the phone, or they're gonna ask you for permission. Say, I'd like to talk to these 3 customers, etc. Can you make an introduction? And you know, usually the founders is sure. And then you get on the phone with the customers, and the questions are really varied. And it depends what they're really digging for. But a lot of times. It's like, Okay, talk to me about like how they were to work with, what kind of contract did you have with them? Would you renew like
Sylvia Bouloutas: you know, it could speak about your character. It could speak about how timely you were helping them. It could speak about your product. It could speak about. You know, they could say, Okay, what other products in this market were you also looking at and like, what made you pick this company like, you know, it could say, How did you do this process like, do you have any quantitative
Sylvia Bouloutas: metrics that suggest that like how you used to run this process before you work with this company versus now is, you know, significantly better so. Customer calls, I'd say, are kind of a critical
Sylvia Bouloutas: critical part of kind of the diligence process, Neil. I don't know if you want to add, and then we can take.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's a couple of questions. Yeah, Nick and Andy, I'm ready to take their questions.
Nicholas Li: My, my question is about the technical part. So all when when you said they wanted like, dive into code, would it be like a conversation about the stack, the code we like. How how like? Just a 1 on one conversation, or like what Nerit was saying, where they just asked for a github.
Sylvia Bouloutas: I mean, you know, I'd love to hear Neil's feedback here, too, but I think it could be both like it could be that they call you and say, Hey, like, we just want to jump on the phone with actually just the CTO of the business. And it could be, you know a Vc. At the firm. It could be a Vc. Plus a technical advisor at the firm, and they could ask for you to share.
Sylvia Bouloutas: You know, some materials live. They could ask for you to send some materials, or it could just be a conversation where they really kind of dig into the technicality, and sometimes it is the CEO, and the CTO. Of the business will be required to be on that call. Sometimes it's just the CTO. But I think it's just there. They might just try and understand the tech on a deeper level.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Neil, I don't know if you've have you ever like dug through people's github when you were like when you do diligence, or do you feel like it's more conversation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, we we have, we have at times, and we'll have somebody who's really adept within that technical space sometimes to call in to help out with that kind of review as well. I mentioned to in the chat that, like I I think
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a live demo or review makes sense rather than sending them that information to review very similar to a financial model. When you all do part 2 for Troy's workshop, he's going to tell you the same thing which is, don't send an investor your financial model, force them to schedule time with you, to walk them through it, so that you can demonstrate your knowledge and awareness of it, and you don't leave anything to chance about what they're going to interpret without being around.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, that's great. Definitely feels like it's it's more productive also. Then you can answer their questions on the call. You're not going back and forth with email. And, like Neil said, You don't like nothing kind of falls through their cracks there, Annie.
Annie Brown: Good morning. Good to see everybody again. I missed you guys. So I guess my question is for the customer calls what is best practices so like
Annie Brown: like.
Annie Brown: Do you do it like a double opt in type of thing. And do you? Would you prep the customer a little bit before the call, like letting them know what type of Vc, what questions they might ask. Would love to. Yeah. Know, like generally, what best practices for that customer call process is.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, I mean, from my perspective, I think it. It would be important to kind of give the customer heads up, saying and asking them. If it's okay, right? Like, we have some investors that are the diligence process. And you know we'd love to kind of like connect you with them if you could just take a 2030 min call just to talk to them about the experience with our product. And you can give some outlines of, you know. Maybe a couple of you know points for them to mention to maybe make you look extra good slash.
Sylvia Bouloutas: You know things that maybe could come up in the meeting, but I historically like, think the founders that founders should like prep their customers. But it doesn't have to be a really in depth. Prep call
Sylvia Bouloutas: and A lot of it is just trying to understand their experience with you. And honestly, where your product falls in the market. Neil, I don't know if you have any else to add. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You said it well.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, alright.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Does that make sense?
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay? Great. Okay. Morgan.
Morgan Stanton: And my question is, if you have investors that maybe aren't on the technical side or scientific side, and they're kind of sometimes, you know nervous about the science, but it's too technical. Is it okay to like, be like, Hey, I have an advisor on the team that maybe you'd want to talk to is that
Morgan Stanton: in polite or like, should they? They only like, can go find their their outsourced ones, or, like, is recommending an advisor to like, I guess biased.
Sylvia Bouloutas: I don't think so. I mean, I think, like you know, you are. Gonna be the CEO. You're the CEO of the business. So you do have to like, present it in a sort of scientific but also business language, right? And then I think you know, through the diligence process, as long as you're kind of you're like the equity ownership slash, like your kind of team structure is like there in the data room. And there is like kind of a scientific advisor. You know, you can definitely offer to say
Sylvia Bouloutas: we have a great advisor who also works with us. If you want to dive into the science more. And what they what would happen is, it's like they're gonna have their their own people, no matter what like. They're gonna have their own people to evaluate you. But it's like those people plus them, plus you, plus a scientific advisor could meet.
Sylvia Bouloutas: So it's like those 2 different parties I think of like technical plus like the investor. And then technical, plus CEO that would be like, I mean, that would be the way that it would be structured. Usually.
Morgan Stanton: Okay. Great. Thank you.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Cool any more questions about diligence.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I have a quick comment about Morgan's question. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: one opportunity that you have is to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: make people feel really good by explaining complicated things in a very digestible and accessible way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you can also suggest anybody conducting due diligence on you. The types of experts that you would have the most fruitful conversation with.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to give them a little bit of guidance on, like who they should tap in their network to have a conversation with you or someone technical on your team about it. But yeah, it's a 2 way street. And it's a it's a really like kind of funny thing to say. But part of this business with Vcs is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, validating their intelligence in a way. So you kind of like want to make them feel like they. They're they're smart enough to understand what you're doing, even if it's at a higher level than what would be deep tech
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so you've got a really good opportunity to do that, too, by being an effective communicator.
Morgan Stanton: Okay. Great. Thank you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, Dominique, and will.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Hey, everyone? Just a quick, quick question in terms of how to make the Vc's life easier with this process. So
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I know, like with PE, typically, you'd have like a vendor. Dd, so you kind of do the Dd in advance ready for the data room.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: So it's a silver platter with a with a bow wrapped around it. Is that something that we should be thinking about here, I guess, for each of these 4 dot points where
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: we have not obviously not a full blown audit. But we have a financial expert that can kind of review all of the
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Liz and Sam with on the lead technical. That's kind of had the tick of approval before we
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: offer it up.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, yeah, I can touch you. And then you can continue like, I think, the way that I've historically made investor introductions to kind of to founders at Texas and etc. like is to make sure that your data room is really ready
Sylvia Bouloutas: for those investor eyes cause I assume that. Who knows how fast the process could be? It could be, you know, a month it could be. It could be much shorter, and we want to make sure that, like you are ready to go for, like you know, in case they want a diligency faster than we expect.
Sylvia Bouloutas: So that means that you have to have a lot of different documents in your data room that are kind of pre kind of vetted, and that you feel like are at the place where someone could look at them and be okay with it. And I know the data room is a live document, you're going to continue to add, but you have to be at a place, I think, where you you know you and you should be like, you know, running it by kind of experts.
Sylvia Bouloutas: In addition to like the tech star team. In addition to you know, other founders like trying to get as many eyes on this as possible to make sure that it looks really clean and ready for like an investor to to dig in, but in terms of like doing additional work like I wouldn't say you have to
Sylvia Bouloutas: like, you know. Write a you know, a diligence checklist or anything. It's more just having kind of all of these materials. Kind of ready to go.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Go there!
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I've got an anecdote to share.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Andrew Pinner from
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Otto open to the offer, who you all met
Neal Sáles-Griffin: last week on Zoom.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I remember when he 1st completed the data room curriculum that Liliana designed with another colleague of ours
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and his feedback to us. And I've heard this feedback now from multiple founders
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is that when a Vc. He got connected with reached out and asked for the data room, and he within a minute responded with the link to his data room. That was complete. The Vc. Was like super impressed
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and couldn't believe that he had so much had already thoroughly thought through.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I will say that if you trust our process and you complete our data room curriculum.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you have that ready to share with any BC, you ask? They're going to be impressed.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, totally like one of my favorite things is, time kills all deals.
Sylvia Bouloutas: and the reality is that if you don't have your stuff ready to go like you're.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yup!
Sylvia Bouloutas: You're only going to hurt yourself, and there, you know, it's gonna lose the momentum.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And most founders don't. Most founders don't have it together. Well, the process forces them to get it together, and what we do to help you. All is, we get it together with you before you interact with those Vcs.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah, we're smiling, Sylvia, because I say this to Dominique. A lot. Time time kills deals. It's like my, my motto, yeah, everything sales as well. It's
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: time is the enemy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think my new motto is the best superhero is batman with prep.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, so.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And mine.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay, so this this is kind of, you know, the next step, right? You've gone through diligence. Things are going well. So now there's going to be kind of a component of this that is going to be term sheet negotiation. Some of you have already done this
Sylvia Bouloutas: many different ways. Some of you are more new to this. So there's going to be a lot of kind of nuances, and honestly, a lot of legal terms that I believe that we're going to be covering and like throughout the program. And you know, additionally, it's stuff you can always ask us about. But you know, this is like the great part where you get a term sheet. And you know, you're able to kind of formally. You know, build that relationship with the fund and accept their investment and
Sylvia Bouloutas: move forward there. And you know, you're gonna get multiple term sheets, usually, and you're able to sort of kind of pick which one you want to go to slash, how your round is gonna kind of shape up?
Sylvia Bouloutas: So this is, gonna be around investment terms. Right, you're gonna there's gonna be a discussion about valuation, your equity percentage, the equity percentage you're gonna take.
Sylvia Bouloutas: which often is saved up for like the lead investor but in a, you know, could be discussed. With other investors as well. The investment amount
Sylvia Bouloutas: and it's important to note like this is definitely a negotiation. So like, you know, it's not abnormal to go back and forth, you know, on different
Sylvia Bouloutas: investment terms, or to have additional questions. And there's a lot of kind of provisions and liquidity preferences, and all these other kind of like, you know additional things that can sneak into these term sheets like, if you know, you guys term sheets are very much like a legal document, right? And you know, it's it's it can be confusing. So there's a lot of different terms. So it's definitely a negotiation. Liliana, do you have.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I just wanted to point out, Sylvia said. You're gonna get a lot of different term sheets and get to choose which investors you want. That is only if you do the work to make your business extremely fundable. The vast majority of founders, I see, are not choosing who who gets to be on their cap table. It's a desperate anyone who gives us money anywhere will take it. That is not the position you want to be in. You want to be in the position Sylvia is talking about, but I just wanted to
Lilliana Robinson: highlight how rare that is! And that's only for the founders who make their businesses fundable
Lilliana Robinson: before they go and raise capital. So they're not raising capital
Lilliana Robinson: out of pure necessity because they're gonna die. And that's really important. You want to be like Mark Zuckerberg, where he slides terms across the table, and he says, You tell me, yes or no, that's what I want for you guys, I want you guys to be in such a strong position that what Sylvia said is true. So just know that that won't automatically happen.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Absolutely not. And that's a really good point. But that's where we want you to be. That's like what we want to work towards. That's what you know we want to prepare you for. And that's what you know. A lot of the hard work in this program really kind of results in like where you have that very investable business with great traction items, and you have a lot to show for what you've done, and you're able to be in that position. That's not desperate, right? And you're you're able to, you know, kind of decide who you want to participate with you as you build the business.
Sylvia Bouloutas: any questions on term sheets.
Sylvia Bouloutas: This is a this is a nuance. This is like a layer of nuances, so don't feel like you have to answer, you know. Answer everything, and as you are in that phase, and do get the term sheets and have questions like, you can always ask us as well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Want to plant a flag for near. It's question in the chat we should discuss it at the end of your talk, Sylvia.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay, yeah, for sure.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay.
Sylvia Bouloutas: so
Sylvia Bouloutas: so this is kind of now, we're going to the outreach process like a lot of times. Founders are, you know, asking, How do I kind of get in touch with these investors? And you know, we've shared examples of kind of cold introductions or cold emails with you guys kind of throughout the week. And you know I'm I love
Sylvia Bouloutas: kind of reviewing these messages, and I'll I can. I'll share with you more in the presentation, like how I'm gonna work with you guys. But you know, definitely having a really good kind of cold slash, warm and warm, forwardable message is really really important. That's very clear, concise, that has some sort of personalized aspect to it that has
Sylvia Bouloutas: definitely, you know your traction, which is like meaningful traction, and a really clear kind of call to action, is what I've seen work the best in the past, and as you manage these investor conversations, you have to think of it a little bit like a sales process like I really highly recommend you having a pipeline that's like a Crm, and that you build it in a in a in a tool that's shareable like I've seen a lot of it, you know. Founders say.
Sylvia Bouloutas: oh, like I have my investor pipeline in this tool. It's super hard to share, like you need to set up an account blah blah like I would. I don't, and you know I'd love to hear what Neil and the team have recommended in the past, but I recommend like airtable. Is all is really great for tracking this or any kind of Google Google sheets even like, but something you can share to other people so that they can kind of keep track. And when I say other people, I mean, like other kind of contacts in your network, who you think are going to be able to make introductions to investors.
Sylvia Bouloutas: And so yeah, it's very important that you're tracking interactions that you have next steps, that it's very thorough, like when I receive an investor pipeline from a founder that just has like it's like a Google doc with like the fund name that they want to reach out to like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: I don't consider this founder ready to get fundraising. I don't think they're ready. I don't think they've done the research. I don't think they've done the work. I don't think they're able to run a process. And as we said, it is going to be like a lot of investors that we want you to target like I've seen. You know these lists, 150 to 200 investors. So
Sylvia Bouloutas: it's really important that like, when you sign me this list I can click through specifically which investors you talk to like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: what are the next steps there like? Why did you, you know, if they passed? Why like that? I you've recorded this key information in a log.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Neil, do you have anything, or Liliana to add to that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alex. Poe has the Mvp. Award from the 150 companies that I've invested in so far
Neal Sáles-Griffin: out of all of them, Alex. With chamber.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't know how he does it so smoothly, but like I think I've made more introductions for him than any founder ever.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the way he does. It is like one he never makes you feel guilty for needing to follow up multiple times. He does the work to make sure he's
Neal Sáles-Griffin: clearly thought through why, he wants the introduction, and he makes it extremely easy for you to just very
Neal Sáles-Griffin: smoothly pass off his investor or introduction request to the person party, and then he'll follow up a few days later or next in the next week and ask you how it's going, or if you heard back.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that is like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think, by far the best that I've experienced, and I would just recommend that you all do that so that you make
Neal Sáles-Griffin: people feel really good to want to help you and continue to do so.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, absolutely. Liliana, yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: That's gold standard. Also, we usually recommend Google sheets just for the collaborative nature of it. And so Sylvia can go in and like comment. Brad used to go in and comment on our alumni's Google sheets just a quick plug for Thursday. Chloe will be going over some like Crm tips and stuff specifically for mentor madness research. But that can translate exactly here for your investor, pipeline. Crm, so make sure that if that's something you're interested in. You're taking notes at that workshop.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'll add one more note for myself here, because I agree with what Liliana just said Google. She seems to be good for collaborative usage and like it's low lift, meaning it's tech. Everybody knows, whereas I think air tables kind of hit or miss depending on who you know they use it, or they don't, especially on the investor side. For me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: In the beginning, founders used to share like these Google sheets with me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't look at those anymore. Like I I barely look at them. I think Sylvia could probably help you all with that. The way the founders get intros from me now is, they choose
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 3 or 5 really important ones.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they specifically asked me for those particular intros and give me reasonings as to why. So I don't have to scroll through a sheet to like click and yes or no whatever, because I'm not really going to do that work. Do the work for me to tell me who I should introduce you, to prove to me that it makes sense for me to make those introductions, and then I'll get it done.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, yeah, that's definitely also, really critical is like that. It has to make sense. Right? Like, you can't just be targeting people who are not within your thesis or your stage, etc, for us to introduce you to it has to kind of, you know. Have that you know, you have to have that work done, and it has to really make sense. Okay, we have some questions from the group. Fabio.
Fabio Caironi: Yeah, I think like getting introduction warm intros, I would say, is definitely the best process. And yeah, I would definitely, you know, go for it whenever that is not possible. I was wondering, what do you guys think about those platforms that promise, you know, to connect investors with founders. If it's a good practice. And if you would advise
Fabio Caironi: getting investor interest in quantity
Fabio Caironi: like these platforms, do.
Sylvia Bouloutas: I would say, no. Personally, I haven't seen a lot of success with that. And I can always tell when someone's emailed me from like someone did like a mix, Max, kind of blast email. Or if it's another company like it feels kind of salesy to me. And I would much prefer
Sylvia Bouloutas: like kind of hey, Sylvia. I see the work you've done at techstars. I took a look at your past cohort. I'm super interested in tech stars I'd love to like. Learn more. Here's my business. Would love to set up a call like something like a little bit more personal, I think, you know, just because, like I said, a couple like like on the last session, right? Like investors get
Sylvia Bouloutas: so much, so much inbound like from, you know, kind of different different, you know, different folks. So the more kind of you can stand out there, I think, makes it really personal versus like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Oh, like someone on. I don't know bridge or whatever has requested a connection with you like I kind of, don't I? I'm I'm like scared to click these links. To be honest, I like. Don't even know what this is. So often I kind of avoid that. Neil, have you had any success with those kind of platforms?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You already know what I think.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Volume for quantity. Come on, now, let's make it from scratch.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah. And like, you don't need
Sylvia Bouloutas: a million. Right? You just need, like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: you know ones that actually match what you're you're building and having those relationships and building them is, it's really important.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay? Morgan.
Morgan Stanton: So this might be kind of like a silly question. But do investors ever look for this list or this? Only just for outreach with like, you know your your friends or colleagues, or whatever. But do investors see this in your data room as something like, Oh, they they have it together. Okay.
Sylvia Bouloutas: No. So this is not for your data room. This is kind of like a private list that you're gonna build for you know your friends, your community, your contacts. It can be investors who have, like already, invested in your business. I think that's a great like this is how you're gonna continue to fundraise like if you or you know, sending that kind of personalized like, Hey, investor, these are 5 people in your network I wanna meet
Sylvia Bouloutas: but you know, this is like these sort of lists, I think, are sort of common practice, even like when you're doing your seed. Even when you're doing your series, A, you're still gonna have to target. And you're still gonna have to send your pre seed investors. Hey? These are the 3 series. A funds, I think, are great. These are the investors of the funds like, can you help connect? So I, personally wouldn't put it. I don't think you should put it in your data room, because then this is sort of private information that you're tracking, and you don't want anyone to know who else you're
Sylvia Bouloutas: but you don't want anyone to know, like, you know, the the whole range of scope of people you're talking to, Neil.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I know we were supposed to like, you know, relax on our drive back on Sunday. But naturally, being in the car with Sylvia and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Chloe. We're going to talk about like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: investor strategy and introductions. So, Sylvia, I'm going to invoke that conversation we had in the car.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, huh.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Where I think I don't know if you remember this, but we were talking, and I I think I you asked me a question, and my answer was.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it was similar to Morgan's question, I think, and my or Fabio's comment, or question, too, which is like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: who
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I like to make introductions
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that feel like I'm doing the investor a favor.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Absolutely. Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Where it's like, Hey, I'm introducing you to a founder and to a business that I know is a good bet and a good deal, and it's gonna make me look good by introducing you to this person.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So just know that that's how it should feel to the person making the reference or introduction. It's not just
Neal Sáles-Griffin: oh, they know you. They know them. So give. Give me the intro, please, like I hope you get this done for me like it's less transactional in that sense is to be much more organic.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But that requires a lot of work
Neal Sáles-Griffin: on your end to have a strong connection and relationship to the person making the introduction.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and to have proven that you have a fundable and exciting business for them to recommend to that person.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So those are few and far between. Those don't happen like hot cakes every single week, where people just make introductions for you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's a the premium level of an introduction, my view, and the types of ones that we should all be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Designing for.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, absolutely a hundred percent like we have to. You know, the people on the other side, right? Have to feel like, yeah, they're giving their network. They're giving that investor. They're giving their contact an awesome opportunity to be a part of your round like. It's an opportunity. Because if we didn't give it to them, another investor would have gotten it, and that's the mindset that both, you know you have to have. But also, you know, you have to have as you're building these
Sylvia Bouloutas: these kind of outreach messages and thinking about, you know your traction, I will say, you know, to Neil I was mentioning to you this this in the car, like
Sylvia Bouloutas: for us, like and I I'll mention this in general, like, you know, we're aligned in the sense that, like I would love for all of your businesses to get funding when the time is right for you. So we want to help you, and we want you to have the right introductions, but we want them to be at the right time, because if it's not at the right time, it can actually hurt your business more. And it's very hard, you know, if you're building e-commerce, for instance, right? Like
Sylvia Bouloutas: we're gonna have a limit on the amount of e-commerce investors we know in our like in there there are period, and also that we're very close to right. So we want to forward your business to them when we feel like it's really at a point where you're ready to create momentum around around if we just forward it to them like tomorrow, before you're at that point and they pass it. It's a it's like it's a harder argument to go back in 3 months and say, Oh, but they did some work.
Sylvia Bouloutas: and they're like, Oh, you sent me this company I already passed, and it's like, No, no, but look at Slide 17 like. Look at all their new traction like that's additional work, and that makes it a much bigger barrier than just sending the company with a really strong message like this company's crushing it. They did so. Well, and you know, here, take a look and they're opening around
Sylvia Bouloutas: cool.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay, okay? So here's kind of my high level presentation tips around like mastering your pitch deck. So
Sylvia Bouloutas: mastering these kind of Vc pitches. So it's really important that I'd say, you know your deck like inside out, like you should be able to pitch it essentially like without looking at it. You should be able to really have that narrative. You should, I'd say, to be prepared with a demo for any Vc. Meeting you just never know like they could say, this is super cool. Can you actually just show me like how this works. So have a demo prepared when you are really, you know, going into these meetings, I would say, just in case
Sylvia Bouloutas: and really practice your timing like, you know you don't you? Don't you want it to be a conversation? I think the best pitch meetings are conversation. I think there are 2 people who are really excited about, you know, innovation in the space like sort of jamming out around it. And you know, getting really excited. I don't think you know, it should be super stiff, but at the same time, I'd say practice having, like a really clean narrative and a clean pitch
Sylvia Bouloutas: in addition to the QA. So this is another tip I have is really getting ready to answer tough questions. I mean, I've seen founders build like question logs which has been helpful in the past, where they kind of compile a lot of different questions that they've gotten from investors, that they came up with, that like investors could ask, or the tech source team, you know, told them that they may get asked question in kind of Vc present Vc presentation. So definitely, would, you know, really stress to make sure that you
Sylvia Bouloutas: are not caught offhanded? And it's okay if you don't know it, but follow up in an email with the answer, but try and be really thorough, like, I think as long, you know, you have to show up confident, and you have to show up like, you really know, kind of, you know a lot about your market.
Sylvia Bouloutas: a lot about your competitors like, for instance, I see a lot of companies that say, like, Oh, like we have no competitors, or Oh, I didn't know that company was a competitor that you had in your portfolio like this comes off in a way that you just didn't do the work. You didn't do the research. And you're not very much aware of your market. So definitely be very aware of the market, the competitive landscape, any questions about your team, and any sort of more technical questions.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay.
Sylvia Bouloutas: so here's kind of at the end where, you know, you guys might be talking for a bit right? And I would say at the end of the meeting they may say, Hey, do you have any questions for me. I think you definitely should ask questions. I think this is a great opportunity to learn a little bit more about the fund more than what you could research online. And I would I would lean against vague questions like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: You know, I've had this from the investment standpoint. I have founders who've asked these questions, and I've said, you know, don't do that again where it's like super vague like. Oh, what do you think about the future of AI. Or what do you think about this like political event that happened, or something sort of like Chatty, where it's like, this is not the time I would definitely have questions like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Oh, so like, just wanna you know, understand your check size, like, what is your ownership target, like, you know, really pointed stuff around their investment kind of process. And the way they conduct that
Sylvia Bouloutas: so you know the second, what is your process? Right? What is your timeline like, and that's when they can walk through. Like how many meetings they usually have, like
Sylvia Bouloutas: what the diligence process looks like. They may say, Oh, it's 6 weeks for us, and you know it looks like a couple of meetings with the team, etc, like it's just good to for you to know, and some funds may say we we move really, really fast, and that's just how we do it. And then the 3rd one that I always think is a really good question to ask is around portfolio support. So like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: for instance, like, once you kind of get investment from this fund. And if you kind of work with them. What? What does portfolio support look like like? How often would you meet with them? You know how like you know, what resources do they have for founders? Maybe in your industry? You know, building something that you're building. And how like, yeah, how would that kind of how would your company fit into their portfolio? I'd say, like these are good questions to ask
Sylvia Bouloutas: on a on a high level? I don't know if anyone on the team has any comments on that? Or if there are any questions from the audience there.
Sylvia Bouloutas: okay.
Sylvia Bouloutas: cool. So then I'd say again, follow up actions. It's so important that you're like on top of your game. And this is like why you have to have all your materials ready because you have to like be thinking about, you know, you know, providing any information that they said, Hey, can you send me your data room? Of course you can't wait, you know, 2 weeks. Then, you know, they've already moved on so definitely. Send a follow up note, I'd say.
Sylvia Bouloutas: provide any other information, and, you know, suggest next steps, if appropriate like. If you felt like that was how the conversation was going, or if you feel like, you know, you really enjoy talking to them, and you think they would be a great partner.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay, so cool. So let's talk a little bit about valuation. So I know that this is a kind of hot topic. And it's it's kind of, you know, not a 1. Size fits all. A lot of people say it's an art, not a science. So it's not necessarily like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: you know, your business is just gonna have evaluation. And that's it. It really depends on a lot of factors like
Sylvia Bouloutas: so at techstars. I've seen valuations between 1 million and between 10 million. So it's definitely been kind of a range. I'd say you know, I'd say it's really important to be very realistic like, I had a founder come to me saying that they wanted to raise at a 70 million dollar valuation, for, like their pre seed round.
Sylvia Bouloutas: and they had essentially no traction. So that, I think, is not the best strategy. And also there was just a lot of coaching that we had to do to really get them to be a little bit more realistic about where they really are. And you know, this is important. Is it to consider impact on future rounds, like
Sylvia Bouloutas: whoever has the highest valuation is doesn't win like it doesn't work like that. Like, if you get a 30 million dollar valuation for this round. You're going to be expected to 2 x to 3 x each time.
Sylvia Bouloutas: which means that you have to raise at a much higher like 3 times that valuation in 18 to 24 months, which is when you're going to raise again, like it's not years away. So which is completely unrealistic. And you know it happens. But you know, ideally you don't want to down round. You want kind of a thoughtful sustainable, you know business. That kind of continues to grow.
Sylvia Bouloutas: you know, over over time. So you know, I would say to really be on, you know, realistic. But just be very realistic, I think, around the type of valuations you want. So usually they're set by the lead investors, but they're influenced by a lot of different kind of.
Sylvia Bouloutas: you know factors. And the way that you can find out what valuation would be most
Sylvia Bouloutas: like app for your company is really just looking at comparable companies, like, I think, looking at where the market is looking at companies that are like within your space, within your industry, within your sector, and that are like kind of maybe founded at the same year you were founded, etc, like, there's a lot of different you know, kind of additional nuances that go into that but comparable match. Marks are going to be like the best way way for you to have, like at least a solid valuation. Range
Sylvia Bouloutas: questions.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: When.
Sylvia Bouloutas: One thing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That happens a lot that aren't just down rounds are the very cleverly worded bridge round.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Hmm.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That you hear founders mention a lot.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, it's a bridge round, you know. And what that means basically is, oh, well, I spent my money
Neal Sáles-Griffin: either too fast or poorly. And now I need more money, but I have no justification other than the fact that I'm about to run out of cash, so give me more money. Now, please.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And it's a very awkward thing to have lots of founders like find themselves in, which is like basically poor planning and anticipation of adjustments and strategy, because whatever plan you had for what you were gonna do with the money is working out. So you need to make it clear. As often as possible that you're raising capital because you have inputs and levers that you're excited to inject that capital to pursue.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to help grow the business. And when founders have this like kind of very clever narrative about a pivot that they're going to make, and that's why they need new capital that that tends to be a very, very challenging narrative. It can work every now and then but it it will. You'll become
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the the boy who? Cried Wolf eventually, when it's always the founder constantly seeking the next hit of capital, with no real traction to show for it, and the most dangerous founders to do that are the ones that are actually really good at fundraising.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We've seen this before where a founder is really good, with their words really good with the all of the things that we're recommending in this deck. They'd like have all that together. But yet at the end of the day, if you look at the business itself. It's not making any progress.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So those are. Those are the the most awkward ones, because they tend to always impress Vcs and investors to get commitments and yeses, but they end up not actually producing anything worthwhile.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Morgan.
Morgan Stanton: So I've been using the tactic of like comparable companies as benchmarks. I find valuations very mysterious, and, like the forces used to actually give that value. Is there something else at like this early stage that, like I should be looking for? Right? I can point to other early stage biotechs like right? 3 million to 5 million is like the typical thing for something in my level. But are they gonna like investors? Me like, give me more like. Usually I can look at a company, maybe like way far out. That's like Ipo, great. You have those like public filing data. But
Morgan Stanton: is there anything else I can't like. Predict how the tech will be exactly in like 5 years.
Sylvia Bouloutas: I mean.
Sylvia Bouloutas: I don't think so. I think it is just that like I think I mean, for for your industry it might be different. And like this is something we probably dig into deeper, because biotech might have just different valuation ranges than like maybe a traditional Sas company. But at the same time, like, I think it is like a it's like a starting point. And like the lead investor is the one who's gonna set it, anyway. So you can say, Oh, we're raising kind of, you know this this start amount and
Sylvia Bouloutas: you know, this can fluctuate like it'll it'll fluctuate a little bit like you could say I'm raising 5 million.
Sylvia Bouloutas: and then you end up raising 5.5 million, and then, or or sorry that you're raising on a 5 million dollar valuation, and, like you get some over subscribed round. The valuation changes a bit. So it's it's definitely possible that there is a little bit of a like change, right? And it's it's also not 100% like. That's why it's in negotiations, not a hundred percent like
Sylvia Bouloutas: what you say it is, but I think just being really knowledgeable about the comparables is kind of the main way. I've seen it done, Neil, and the team. I don't know if you guys have
Sylvia Bouloutas: other
Sylvia Bouloutas: things to add about.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, certain certain businesses that get value to certain levels within particular, you know, subgroups or industries have a variety of ways that that can be calculated. You know, they use revenue, multiple, sometimes other. You know, aspects that that can be used. And you can speak to companies that have gone through that journey to help understand how they were evaluated at those phases. That's a good way to do it, Morgan. But on top of that I would say, you're right. It is mysterious, because it is mostly Bs.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're all just making this up as we go at the early stage. We don't actually know how to properly value these companies if we're being honest. And then on top of that I think the most important thing to do is to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: be honest about what the purpose of that even is. And
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's an awkward conversation because you go. Okay. Your business is worth 5 million dollars.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So can we just go sell it right now for that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Probably not right? So who's gonna bite? Nobody. So it's just a weird thing where we're kind of making up numbers a little bit
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with some rough
Neal Sáles-Griffin: inputs for why, we think they're justified based on what the market says arranged would be appropriate for this kind of business. But every business is going to be different. And you're going to need to point to something unique and substantive that you know, and that you have going on that others don't. That will lead to a 2 to 3 x multiple in your next fundraising round.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's really what matters.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, got it?
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, Annie.
Annie Brown: Yes, I I have 2 questions. One related to that. I have an advisor who keeps telling me I need to get a 4 0 9 a like yesterday. I I personally think it might be a little too early. Also, because they're expensive. It could be like 2, $3,000.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, you can do that later. You don't have to do it right now.
Annie Brown: Okay, good and then my other question, was related to timing of around. So I know, like I've gotten advice before to like, start around, have a very clear start, date for around. Tell it, and tell investors I am closing at this date
Annie Brown: for me personally, that's been really hard to do so. I was wondering what y'all's advice on timing year round is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is more on the side of the circumstance of the business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There are plenty of founders who have found success at having a very
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like strict boundary, for when they're launching their raise and when they're completing their raise that can work really well as a pressure cooker, especially when you know you have a fundable business. That's when that works the best.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's another thing that founders always end up either doing or, you know, evolving into as they try to raise, and they realize how difficult it is which is what we refer to as a rolling close. So they'll they'll essentially start to get commitments.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They'll pause or stagnate right? Because they're they're still struggling to get more commitments. So now they want to get the money in from the folks that already committed, even though they're not reaching the amount that they intended to raise that. So they call that a rolling close.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we can strategize for your unique situation, Andy, when the time comes about. What makes the most sense.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, cogniscope team.
Çoruh | CogniScope: Hey? Hi! Can, can we, you know, discuss, and maybe elaborate a bit more about the you know how valuations aren't, you know more is better free lunches. Type of thing, because, you know, like I get that, you know, a down round looks really bad, and you know, you ultimately would like to avoid that. But if I'm currently raising money, and and if I have and if I have multiple investors that are giving me different valuations.
Çoruh | CogniScope: Shouldn't I be going for the highest one? Or maybe, if I'm you know, do following strategies that you're providing. And you know, finding out that companies of my size. And you know, companies that were founded in the similar timeline as we were ha have like, let's say, an ex valuation. And then all of the term sheets. I have have lower ones. If I don't need the money immediately, shouldn't I keep pushing for that higher valuation, or like? What's the you know. Go to here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'll keep it simple for you. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: let's say you got a 5 million or a 10 million on the table, right? You can get your business funded at 5 million. Get your business funded at 10 million.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 10 million. Sounds great. It's great for the ego. It's exciting to think that you have a valuable business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but the expectation for a 10 million dollar business for the next round is going to be probably between 20 and 30 million for the next round.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right for valuation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now, if you have a model, and you're like well, it looks like I'm only going to probably be worth 15 million
Neal Sáles-Griffin: by the time I raised my next round.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's not going to be as exciting for that series A or for that seed fund.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think you need to factor in more than just the biggest number
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with respect to valuation, but also the one that feels
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the most true to you and the most in alignment with your strategic plans for the next few years.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Also, another thing that founders tend not to do well is model out
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the impact of those financial outcomes over time in their respective cap tables.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so actually understand the financial like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: implications of these valuations. Once you have
Neal Sáles-Griffin: certain exit, events or liquidity, events realized.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Very few think about what that looks like, and and how that could work, and what ends up in your pocket if you end up having a successful outcome 5 to 10 years from now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So do that work as well to understand the difference in valuation at that early stage.
Çoruh | CogniScope: Yeah. So I guess what you're like. What I'm hearing from you is you're saying that, you know when when we are going for evaluation we have to think about. You know how the business is going to perform according to our estimates, and then, you know, trying to gauge the proper with proper, you know, interval where we should be going, for since you know, in the next round you expect, if you, if we go in with too high of expectations, then it will be impossible to raise a second round correct, and
Çoruh | CogniScope: that will derail the business if we need. If we think that, you know we'll need to raise a second round in the end, no matter what.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Understood.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, that's right.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, I also want to add, like all of you have different businesses, different stages, different, you know, sectors. So when you are in these conversations around valuations with investors like we can kind of be a sounding board there around more specific questions like around, you know. Oh, I have this valuation this term sheet, etc. But this is totally like an overview of like super high level. So you're kind of just prepared.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Cool. Okay, next slide
Sylvia Bouloutas: rejection. So you are gonna definitely get a lot of rejections throughout this process. And that's just just what it is. And it doesn't matter, because in the sense that, like you can't, you know, take a very like heavy like. You will get rejections, but if you're working hard and your business has great traction like they'll you know there will be an investor. That is the right fit for you. But
Sylvia Bouloutas: you know, I would say, when you get rejections and ask for feedback, if possible. Sometimes you're not going to get it, and sometimes feedback is like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: you know, super general, like you were too early for us or etc, like we aren't looking in the space. And you know that's just the reality of it. Sometimes it's going to be general. Sometimes it's going to be more pointed.
Sylvia Bouloutas: I would definitely keep it all into kind of your Crm document where you're getting feedback.
Sylvia Bouloutas: So keep a log of it all, and try and see any common threads. If there is more kind of specific feedback and continue to iterate right whether that's something that you feel like you know, this is easy, an easy change. You can make so again, maintain relationships like, I would definitely be like, very, you know, kind of thank you for the time, etc. Do you have any feedback like? Be very polite, be very friendly, because
Sylvia Bouloutas: these investors like the chance that you see them at an investor event in San Francisco or elsewhere is pretty high the chance that they're in the ecosystem, and might even know or be friends with the person who ends up leading around is quite high, especially within industries, and the chance that you might need them for a future round. You know they might become a huge advocate for you in a year or 2, and
Sylvia Bouloutas: sometimes it just, you know, they just missed out on a round, and that happens. So I would definitely try and continue to improve your pitch. Continue to be very self aware about, you know the interactions that you have and how you can continue to, you know, present your business better, and
Sylvia Bouloutas: maintain relationships in the ecosystem. I would definitely, definitely definitely not say anything mean back or anything. I know this group is awesome, and you wouldn't do that. But I always just have to say, you know, keep it very professional, very professional, in these situations.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, Fabio.
Fabio Caironi: This might be a silly question, but you were mentioning investors in the San Francisco ecosystem. So what do you think about the geography of the investors like, should we prioritize investors that are closer to us?
Fabio Caironi: Investors that are in the Us. Market? Because I've been conducted by, you know, people like, maybe in Europe or London.
Fabio Caironi: I wanna just see what's your take on the geography of investment?
Fabio Caironi: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I have a thought, and then, Sylvia, maybe.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would love to get your your take, but I'll share quickly.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm a fan of knowing exactly who I want on my cap table.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I've I'm being extremely careful and intentional wherever you are far wide. You're in this ecosystem, great in in the bay, the best place in the world to fundraise. Sure, but there's plenty of other appropriate people all over the world that you can, you know. Talk to that you're going to do with intention.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I would challenge all of you strongly to be really, really
Neal Sáles-Griffin: intentional about who you want on your cap table, what experience and what firms for what reason? And if you manage it very well and properly.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's going to show, and it's it's going to benefit you long term in a significant way, and I think too many founders are are lazy about who they want their commitments from.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because they just want the money and they want them. They want it now, and they want it fast.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so don't fall into that trap if you can avoid it.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, I mean, I agree. I think it's important to be really intentional about you know who you want to work with that being said, like
Sylvia Bouloutas: I wouldn't. You know I don't. I haven't had a lot of experience like co-investing with international investors. Most of the investors have Co. Invested in the past have been like in the in the Us. But I don't think it like matters in terms of are they in Miami? Are they in? Sf, are they in? You know, New York? I think they're great investors in all these cities. It's more just
Sylvia Bouloutas: like, you know. Is this like, like, do they invest in businesses like yours like, is it a fit for their fund? Right? And I think that's that's where I would kind of focus more.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, any other questions.
Sylvia Bouloutas: I'm gonna go back to this. So I'm gonna just have some fundraising do's and don'ts right now, super quick stuff. We've probably already covered, so don't lie or be dishonest ever like ever like I I know that obviously, you know, when you calculate your market size, when you do. Your financial model stuff are based on assumptions, but, you know, be clear about those assumptions, but do not lie about your traction. Do not lie about your resume, or or about yeah, your background about your team.
Sylvia Bouloutas: I have personally known for a a company that I got a almost got a term sheet from like tier, one investment firm for a great term sheet, and they had found out that they had lied about some of their customers like they had said that they were customers when they were not officially customers yet, and the Vc. Will figure find this out, especially if it's a bigger fund like they have a whole team of people who are looking at this stuff
Sylvia Bouloutas: and the they pulled the term sheet. It was nearly impossible for them to get another term sheet, because word spread like this that that company which was super hot at that time was really kind of lying about a lot of their financial, a lot of their customers and their financials and their revenue from them. So I would be as honest as possible.
Sylvia Bouloutas: And I think that it's okay, if you you know you're not, you know you don't have the revenue that you know you're taught you want to, for whatever reason, like. Obviously, we want you to have traction, but I would say it's better to be honest. Saying like, this is the revenue. These are our customers. This is where we're at, because the right investors will say, Okay, no worries like, I understand. Like, maybe we can help you. You know that kind of relationship.
Sylvia Bouloutas: The second is. Do not ask for an nda like no investor is going to sign an nda. It's just the name of the game. They see thousands of pitches a year. I don't. You know they're not.
Sylvia Bouloutas: They're not gonna like I, I, any professional investor is not going to kind of use your business as an advantage for themselves, etc. But you know, if you do see any sort of fishy behavior within the investor community, I would say definitely like anything that you find really uncomfortable like, flag it for our team, and we can make we can kind of make a note to like
Sylvia Bouloutas: that investor was unprofessional in some sort of way, but I I wouldn't. I would never ask for an nda, because no one will sign it, and it seems like you just aren't really aware of the dynamics of the market. So do not overthink your valuation we talked about that. Do not be rude. Do not be slow to respond with diligence requests. It's very important. You know. Don't wing it, and make sure you have a lot of practice and your pitch and questions, etc. and
Sylvia Bouloutas: don't over optimize for branding funds.
Sylvia Bouloutas: So here are some things I think you should do. So. You know, we're cheering for you and closing around may take some time so definitely kind of budget out right like we said it could take 3 to 6 months, but it could also even take more in this market. So be sure to kind of
Sylvia Bouloutas: be aware of the fact that the market is different than it was a couple of years ago, and it might take more time. Always be respectful, and, you know, be on good terms with investors. Be very organized, follow up quickly. That'll really impress
Sylvia Bouloutas: funds and impress investors that you know want to work with you. So do research. We talked about this as well, and you know. See, the whole process is just building relationships.
Sylvia Bouloutas: With investors that could really be useful. Kind of down the line.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, cogniscope.
Çoruh | CogniScope: So like
Çoruh | CogniScope: all Vcs know each other. We know that. But is there a way to utilize the Vc network from within? Because I know they have. Like some talk groups. They talk to each other about what companies are like, what's the markets is like like
Çoruh | CogniScope: was some kind like. They also talk about some deals with him like because they're basically friends.
Çoruh | CogniScope: And I, is there a way to utilize that network? Because.
Çoruh | CogniScope: my company would benefit a lot if it comes like, if any other Vc.
Çoruh | CogniScope: As telling something good about good about my company to the other one.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, I mean, I think from my experience, it's not a formal way. So like I used to be on a Wednesday 4 pm. Like in my last job. Wednesday, 4 Pm. Precede
Sylvia Bouloutas: precede call, and it was like 55 investors, and we were all different funds, and we took this call every Wednesday at 4 pm. And the whole point is we'd go around and we'd share deals with companies that we saw in the market, that for whatever reason our fund was passing on. So I'd say, like the most obvious way to make sure that you are on that deal flow list is number one to just impress the best Vc. And just impress them. And you know, if if they pass, it's you know it could be just that it's
Sylvia Bouloutas: not in the thesis at the moment, or they have a competitive company or etc. But I would definitely like try and make good impression there. And I think it's totally okay to ask, like, you know, as you're meeting investors, and you know, maybe not like the best time to do this would be if you kind of organically meet an investor out right like, if you're at a networking event, and you kind of talk about your company. And they say, Oh, nice like, we're really not kind of focused on that.
Sylvia Bouloutas: And you say, Oh, no! Worries like if you know people who do, who or who are looking in this space like I'd love any introductions. You know, we're actively fundraising, etc. So I think it's definitely okay to say, Okay, cool like. Do you know other people who
Sylvia Bouloutas: who kind of you think would be interested in this, so that they can continue to kind of forward your company onwards. Neil, I don't know if you have more to add to that.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay, cool. Monica.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Yeah. So I actually get a lot of inbound from random Vc firms and private equity firms. And I used to take them. I don't take them anymore. These calls, but and some of them are healthcare specifics. Most are general, but
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): they always want to have a meeting with me about like clinical research, like they're really interested in the space they want to find out more. And then I end up giving them like a lesson in the space, and I don't really understand like, why they reach out to me like doesn't. Sometimes they're specifically interested in learning about our company. Sometimes they're not like, what is your take on? Why, they're doing this.
Sylvia Bouloutas: It sounds like they're just doing market research like they're just trying to say, Okay, we have, like a vague thesis on. Maybe, you know clinical trial, slash health tech and let's kind of do a pull of whatever companies are in that space. Let's talk to some of them. Let's, you know, just kind of get a pulse of what that market looks like, and how these companies are tackling the problem. I think it seems like more of a kind of thought project for them, I mean.
Sylvia Bouloutas: I'd say, that's why I've historically said to founders like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: it's kind of like fundraising is a little binary like I would. I would prioritize taking fundraising conversations like when you're really really ready, or else sometimes these conversations with investors can get and skew a little bit theoretical, and you're like feeding to their research projects
Sylvia Bouloutas: versus actually them helping you. But again, it's a fine line, because sometimes it is important to build some sort of relationships right before you kind of go out and fundraise. But definitely try and you know, keep the meetings like focus on the business. And you know, if they ask like, just try and you know, keep a focus on you and like, continue to steer it back to that. If you've got yourself in the situation. But that's kind of my my take of like. Why, they would want to kind of dig in deeper.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Okay. Thanks.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah.
Sylvia Bouloutas: cool. Alright.
Sylvia Bouloutas: So I want to talk a little bit about.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay. These were some questions that we got last week.
Sylvia Bouloutas: we got on time. Yeah, we have half an hour. So
Sylvia Bouloutas: I think like
Sylvia Bouloutas: if you wanna, we can kind of
Sylvia Bouloutas: discuss this more like. So I know that there was a question on the board last week around like angels versus precede timing. So I I think of what I understand about that question, and like guys feel free to like, raise your hands and put comments in the chat, etc, and we can take a look at it as well, but I think it's like it's like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: what I've seen is like, your round can be like anywhere from 20% to 40% of angels. For like a pre seed round. And sometimes those folks come in first.st They're like high net worth individuals, or they're part of angel groups, or their ex founders who like build something in the space, or you know them from your previous role like
Sylvia Bouloutas: that's kind of like how you begin to build momentum. And then you sort of then go to the more traditional funds and say, Hey, look like we have, you know, 500 K. And Angel commitment, and we're just trying to get our 1st institutional rounds go, or 1st institutional checks going and super interested in your firm.
Sylvia Bouloutas: That's kind of how I've interpreted this question so like. 1st the angels come, and then the precedes. I think, like
Sylvia Bouloutas: you know, there like that's as you like. Build your pre seed like round. I mean, there's there's also like you can just have an angel round, which is like probably up to 500 K. And that's only angels, and you don't have any funds in there, and a lot of you have that. Now a lot of you are building that now. So that's also like the step before going into pre seed.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Are there any questions around like angels? Precede seed like the stages?
Sylvia Bouloutas: I want to see this chat, too.
Sylvia Bouloutas: yeah, Dominique, and well.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah, this, I think this might have been our question. Actually, so thank you for that. So we
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: we had some conflicting advice. And I think that's circling back to Annie's initial question regarding a timeline. This was something where we were. We originally had kind of a dedicated angel round, and we wanted to
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: raise purely the 1st call, yeah, 3, 4, 500 k. From angels, and which have obviously the valuations, are going to be a bit lower. But we also wanted some people that have hands on like that ex operators, or they're familiar with the space so they can
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: add some value, or they actually are
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: people, that when the institutional investor comes in they can see our cap table.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Is credible.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: But the challenge that we then had was a lot of people told us. Well, you should just put everything into one pre seed round
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: and just go out and speak to angels as well as
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: the institutional guys at the same time.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: But yeah, where we were getting where we were struggling is that we was. We knew we were too early for the institutionals. But
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: that yeah, it's just trying to bring the bring the round to a close, I guess. Like having a hard stop of the day, and it just felt like we were never actually going to raise
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: a pre seed round. But we were.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: yeah, try. Yeah. It just felt a bit confused.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah. Like, do you have a specific question there? Sorry if I missed it.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I I guess like. Is it worth then splitting the rounds like splitting it so that it is like a dedicated angel round, and we only speak to angels and not get distracted.
Sylvia Bouloutas: I mean in my experience that their Prec. Your Pre. C. Round is a combination of funds and angels. So like you're the initial parts are maybe angels, and then, as you continue, it is funds as well, so
Sylvia Bouloutas: like. And then the angel round is like a totally different thing where you're like, not even interested. But that's only if you need like. And remember what you need is based on that financial model. But that's usually like your 1st
Sylvia Bouloutas: like kind of larger round right? That's between 250 and 500 k. And if that's what you need, then you can only do an angel round with that amount, and you don't even have to talk to investors, and that's like the step before your proceed. So like a lot of pre seed investors will look at your firm and say, Okay.
Sylvia Bouloutas: like, did you do an angel round like last year, etc. So like, that's kind of how it usually goes. But I've seen it, you, you know, be a combination like anywhere from like 20 etc. percent. A little bit more is just angels of that of that precede round. But I think again, it really depends. And this is stuff like all your companies are going to have a different cap table. Everyone has different angels, different kind of structure. So this is a question, for, like us, you know, you can directly ask our team like what would be the best given kind of your cap table and like where you're going.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Awesome. Thank you for that.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah. Yeah. George.
George Reed - Noetic: Thanks, Sylvia. So bit of a naive question here. But
George Reed - Noetic: how should we be thinking about? Safe? Note 3.1 cap
George Reed - Noetic: being used as a floor for that 1st like Price Round. Is there any consideration of that? Or is that just sort of irrelevant to investors?
George Reed - Noetic: Thank you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Seems to be a baseline that founders use. They use their. They use the 3 mil cap as an like a way to kind of come out of tech stars with the floor of like a 5 mil, or something like that. Founders tend to do that. But the business also needs to be within the ballpark, of being able to justify that in some reasonable way with the investor.
George Reed - Noetic: Okay in the ballpark cause it's a bit of an art in the early stage, right? So that's what I was kind of wondering. Thanks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Correct. Yeah, yeah, it serves as a helpful floor or anchor for you.
George Reed - Noetic: Awesome cheers.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Cool.
Sylvia Bouloutas: I saw Annie posted in the chat like a free resource to find angels. That's great. You guys should take a look at that check it out.
Sylvia Bouloutas: I know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think near it had a couple of good questions. There's 1 earlier that I want to make sure we address, and then the more recent one, he submitted. So as far as initiating the set of terms near it like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: ideally, you're getting that from the investor so that you can use it as a reference point. Sometimes they'll ask you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I need to take this call real quick. I'm gonna be right back if you don't mind picking up from here? Yeah.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, okay, cool. So let's go to this question. Okay, what was it? Again.
Sylvia Bouloutas: who is expected to initiate the 1st set of terms? So my experience has been like, you know, you're talking to a pre-seed investor, and you're going to say cool like, how much are you raising? And they say, Oh, we're raising 1.5 million dollars. And it's like, okay, great like, what valuation are you targeting? Okay, we're targeting a 10 million dollar valuation. So this is all like again, your perspective as a founder based on the comms based on your traction like this is what you believe that you
Sylvia Bouloutas: like are valued. And then, you know, if you guys go on to get a term sheet, they they could say, Okay, cool, like, we'll give you 700 K. But we're gonna you know, we think that we're going to do like an 8 million dollar valuation. And then another firm is going to give you a 12 million dollars like it can kind of like like change like that. So that's part of that negotiation part. But I'd say, like, you have to say, like what you're coming with, or you should have be prepared to answer what you're going to come to that meeting with in terms of
Sylvia Bouloutas: like round size and valuation. And then, I think, like the the ultimate like, who will set it will be that lead investor. And then
Sylvia Bouloutas: you're gonna continually get this question from funds that like are not lead investors, and that's like a huge thing to be aware of is that a lot of funds are just not. They don't lead, they only follow on. That's something that you should be asking, as you you know, meet investors, but they only follow on. They're gonna ask you, okay, have you? Do you have a lead like? Have you secured a lead? And once you kind of secure a lead? That's when those terms become a little bit more like solid. But until then it's kind of like a little bit of a range. Does that make sense?
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay, cool? Neera's other question, how do we bucket ourselves as to what stage would describe our situation? Indo versus pre seed versus seed?
Sylvia Bouloutas: So there's just different, like kind of usual traction metrics associated right like, you know.
Sylvia Bouloutas: And it's it's changing. And you guys commented on this last time like what used to be the traction for a seed round, you know, is probably now the traction required for a pre seed round like historically.
Sylvia Bouloutas: We've had, you know, you say, oh, 1 million dollars in Arr series a like, and that's like how to get to series A, that's like a very, very standard popular metric that investors will look at. And you know, but before that I wouldn't say that it's so clear cut. But I'd say that that's like the rankings. And again, this is one of those things that you have to book time with, like our team to, you know, really dive into your specific situation like where you would
Sylvia Bouloutas: qualify. And we would say, Hey, you're not ready for a seed round like you need to 1st do a pre seed round, but like that's kind of the like. If you've already raised 500 K, then you've basically already done your angel round. That's like what I would say. And then, if you've already raised like 1 point, you know 5 million. Then you've already done your pre seed round, and then your seed round could be like 3 million.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, Morgan.
Morgan Stanton: This is an odd question for me, thinking of these categories. So I got like a government grant, does that count as something? Or that's just still before, like that's like a different government grant round. Now then, you go into your your angel round.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay? Well, I mean, I think it. It definitely counts as something it just depends on, like, you know, you could count it towards your angel round like we've raised 500 k. And like 100 k. Of that, was actually a government grand and 400 K. Was from friends and family, and you know
Sylvia Bouloutas: additional kind of high net worth individuals in the biotech space. That's definitely possible. You could also count it towards your pre seed round like again. Your pre seed round is not only Vcs, it's just the biggest, the bigger chunk of it is usually going to be investors. It's going to be funds like you're going to have that lead who puts in the biggest chunk of money. But you're going to have other people who invest too, like, it's not just going to be like 3 Vcs. And you're done. You're gonna have friends and family again who are going to continue to invest. You may have depend on your industry. You may have government grants, etc.
Morgan Stanton: Okay.
Kevin Kaspar: Still be if I could jump in on that too. I think another way to easily distinguish it is like non diluted versus diluted investment. Given that government grants are non diluted, I think.
Kevin Kaspar: you can distinguish it like that. That way when you're going to raise your 1st dilutive round. You can kind of explain here all the 9 diluted resources that I've leveraged that I've accessed. And now I'm ready to kind of go on my 1st diluted round.
Sylvia Bouloutas: That's really good. Does everybody know what diluted investing means, or non diluted Kevin? I don't know if you want to dive into that just really quickly, to make sure. Everyone is aware.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, sure. Just for example, like a government grant, you're getting funding with no equity stake in the business in return, which is kind of free money almost is the best way to describe it. Sometimes there are expectations around what progress or traction you'll make, but generally you're given the money, and then you are able to spend it as you wish to grow. Your business. That would have investment means that you are then taking a fortune of your company away. As a result of an exchange for money.
Kevin Kaspar: yeah, it's the best way to explain it. I guess that I have.
Sylvia Bouloutas: That's great. That's awesome cool. Does anyone have any more questions about that?
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay, great. So to kind of I'll let Neil tackle how cohorts are doing out of program. I mean, it's it's arranged like, I think.
Sylvia Bouloutas: like, we had some statistic a couple of years ago that like 85% of companies that are programs were able to raise by demo day. And I think that's changed just with market dynamics. But what I will say is that demo day doesn't really matter for fundraising anymore. And I wouldn't really hold yourself to having to fundraise by demo day. And that's how I've approached fundraising in the past, like
Sylvia Bouloutas: I've helped fundrais founders fundraise when it's the best time for their business. And that's really important, like you don't have to fundraise while you're at tech service. You don't have to fundraise by demo day you can message me in a year and say, Hey, I'm going to open up my pre seed round. This is like we've got the numbers like this is the time I'm ready, and I'm say great like. Let's kick off a process, and I would conduct it exactly as I would if you were in our program. That's like, historically, how I've done it. And I think it's more organic, and I don't want to push you to
Sylvia Bouloutas: like, you know, fundraise during the program. If you're not ready. Liliana.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I would say, the vast majority of our founders
Lilliana Robinson: launch their raise at Demo Day or within 3 months, post Demo Day. And if they don't fall into that majority, they're raising like 6 to 12 months down the line post program, maybe even 18 months down the line. So very few of our founders raised during techstars. It's really not advised because you're so busy with this. And it's almost like a full time job. So like we said, we're focusing on building a fundable business first, st and then you go into re.
Lilliana Robinson: amazing. So a lot of people on the Demo day stage will say, like, we're launching around. If that's you, if it, if you guys are good and your model plays out, will help you 6 to 18 months down the line. There's really no like, right or wrong time. It's really personal to you guys.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Exactly. That's exactly true. And like I, you know, continue to meet with founders who are on my 1st cohort at tech stars, which was 2 years ago, and who are now, like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: you know, raising a seed round like, they raised their angel round, they raised their pre seed round, and now they're raising their seed round and again, like they've been at a cohort for a while. But I'm like our team. That kind of brought them into taxars is still around to help make investor introductions and do round strategies. So you know, I would definitely stress that like there's no pressure to raise. Now I saw Neera asked
Sylvia Bouloutas: how to deal with the holiday season immediately after Demo Day.
Sylvia Bouloutas: So you know. Yeah, I think Liliana mentioned commented on this just now. So
Sylvia Bouloutas: really, seasonality doesn't really apply, you know.
Sylvia Bouloutas: It might be slower during the summer season and the in the and like the Christmas time, but at the same time, like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: if you've put in the work and you have great traction. This is like a true story. I literally did a deal like basically over Thanksgiving weekend one weekend. And it was like a healthcare deal while I was like eating pumpkin pie at like my desk, just trying to, you know. Talk about the problem of, you know, unhealthy eating, and I did it like over Thanksgiving. And it happened really, really fast. But the company was, you know, did had amazing traction, and like I felt so lucky to have found them and to be investing. And that's how you want investors to always feel.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Liliana. Also, you should plan to take a break. So feel free to get back to people after the holidays. Yeah, like again, like it's, you know, with Demo Day being around the holidays like, it's okay. If you want to just kick off your fundraise like January second, I think that's like, definitely okay as well, if that's what you would feel more comfortable doing.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay, Neera, can we also do the question before
Sylvia Bouloutas: to tangible benchmarks?
Sylvia Bouloutas: So if what I understand. This is like around what benchmarks you need to fundraise. There are no benchmarks, unfortunately, that we can say, Okay, if you hit this like arr number. You will fundraise like it, you know, other than that 1 million dollars with series A. There's nothing kind of industry wide that I've seen work. I mean, it is again unique to your company, unique to what you're building. So I and I'll jump into this later. But I think
Sylvia Bouloutas: you know, that's a lot of ways that you guys can work with me as I'm going to tell you, like how ready you are to fundraise. And if you have the benchmarks that I would say would look really good for investors, and that would help you like. Would you would be able to fundraise like
Sylvia Bouloutas: at this moment. So and I'll present kind of the way I'm going to be working with you as well. But want to take a couple more questions. So Fabio.
Fabio Caironi: Yeah. One thing that I don't think has been touched upon is the fundraising
Fabio Caironi: time window I I've experienced in the past raising without specific
Fabio Caironi: time windows like deadlines. And it's been very bad because it sounds like you're always fundraising.
Fabio Caironi: So I just wanted to get your take on that, and also like, what is the optimal fundraising
Fabio Caironi: time span that you would recommend, for, like a preseed or a seat.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Annie sort of asked this later, and I honestly want to hear also from other people in the group, slash Neil and Liliana what they've seen. I mean, like we've had like, oh, I'm just kicking off my pre seed round like aim to have it closed, and like the next 6 weeks to to like, you know, to 8 weeks. Kind of thing like I've seen like a faster turnaround. I think it's
Sylvia Bouloutas: like a little bit more impactful if you're saying, Oh, like, this is a sooner round. But I I 100% don't think like the short timelines work. Like, if you email investor saying, I'm closing by Thursday. They're not gonna reply like, I think it's like, you know, we're aimed to close in the next like 6 weeks. I don't think that you also realistically need to say that in like the email, etc, they might ask, What what's your timeline for this round like? Oh, we're just kicking off conversations. And you know, within the next
Sylvia Bouloutas: 6 weeks, right? We're trying to, you know, close around. I think that's usually realistic. I don't know if Liliana or anyone else on the call has had other experiences with like a timeline.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Leona has a thumbs up cool.
Annie Brown: I just wanted to say and correct me if I'm doing this wrong, Sylvia. But one thing that I've done
Annie Brown: is
Annie Brown: not so much like putting a time limit on the round. But when I I'm working with an investor.
Annie Brown: Seems really interested, but just isn't like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah.
Annie Brown: One thing that I will do is, you know, not necessarily say I'm closing around at a date. But say, like, Oh, we're expected to hit this milestone August first.st So the valuation is going to go up then, and then. So if you want to get in at this valuation.
Annie Brown: get in before the 31st is that I've just kind of been doing that. I was just wondering what your thoughts are on on that.
Fabio Caironi: Like the valuation is doubling in a couple of weeks. If you don't, doubling.
Annie Brown: Which is like going up just like a little bit. So basically, we went from.
Annie Brown: I think we were at like a
Annie Brown: 5 5 million to to 6 million. And I just said, You know, we're we're landing this customer, or you know, we got into techstar or something. So you know, it's going up. Yeah.
Annie Brown: And and that's worked. But I don't know if that's like good to do.
Sylvia Bouloutas: I think can work like this is closely aligned with like tranching around and like having different tranches, and like for different investors.
Sylvia Bouloutas: it can work. I wouldn't say it's common practice. The only reason is because you can make people really angry like with these types of like tranches like, I think you can. You know
Sylvia Bouloutas: people like, unless there's a really good reason to turn to, to increase your valuation. You can make people angry and offended that they didn't get in at the better valuation, for whatever reason. I would. I would. Instead, pressure investors with other investors like I'd say we already have a term sheet like I would I would pressure them with other investors. But again, this is actually like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: like I've worked with investors who, like are obsessed with the tranche method, and like they swear by it, it's actually like just different schools of thought like. And I'm curious. If Liliana Neil have had experiences like with this. I mean, I've personally recommended that it's like risky, because you could get people angry. And if you don't
Sylvia Bouloutas: like the the milestones could be like
Sylvia Bouloutas: a little bit more kind of vague, etc. So really, it depends, unless it's like a really big milestone and something that's really changing like to kind of get the get, the get the round close. But I've usually like incentivize founders to close rounds by saying that they're basically almost closed because they have money committed from other funds.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Liliana, have you experienced like? Have you given advice around like tranching before? If we're here.
Lilliana Robinson: No, I haven't, not personally, but I'm sure Neil can speak to it if you ask him when he gets back from his call.
Sylvia Bouloutas: When Neil gets back we'll ask what he thinks. Okay, cogniscope.
Çoruh | CogniScope: Well, well, I just wanna know. What do you think like? How common is it to, you know, negotiate the term by using the other nuances within the. You know, this alludes back to the question that I've asked in the initial one, which was about the nuances of the terms like how realistic, then scenario, where you know you want the 5 million dollar evaluation, and they want, you know, 4 million. And then you say, well.
Çoruh | CogniScope: to meet in the middle. Let's do my evaluation, but with additional discount, or you know something that goes along the same way. How exchangeable are these things within each other. To make a deal more lucrative is the question, and if this is a, if they are, if if these terms should be looked at in vacuum, or do we look at everything as a whole? And you know, when we take from one side, we give from the other side sort of thing.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, Liliana, is it the answer to this? Or.
Sylvia Bouloutas: okay? So.
Lilliana Robinson: And they separate.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Okay, let me take this. So like, I'd say, it's pretty common to challenge investors on terms like I'd say, like some terms that I think, are really common, that are challenged are liquidation preferences. I think that pro rata rights are really challenged. I think board seats, things like this are really challenge valuation can can sway. I wouldn't say it's gonna sway significantly, but I think it can sway
Sylvia Bouloutas: but I do think that it is a discussion like, and it can take a minute like it can take a while for a term sheet to go back and forth and back and forth right? And I think that's normal again. It's more on like these things like and I, you know, we'll cover this throughout our program. What these mean for cause, you know, a lot of you might not know specifically what these terms mean. But like, yeah, like, if you know, you could say I don't like, I don't want to give this person a board seat, which is totally fair. But and also, as you get term sheets, and you're confused about.
Sylvia Bouloutas: you know how you should navigate and how you should negotiate it. That's really where our team can come in to help, and you know where we can. You can box us and say, Hey, I just got a term sheet like these are the terms. I don't like this one. Or what do you think of this? And we can give you more specific feedback on, like, how you can manage that negotiation, because it's super hard to say from a general perspective, like what you should or shouldn't do, because each term sheet is gonna look really really different and like what might not be good for one company might be
Sylvia Bouloutas: much better for another, but sorry. That's kind of a vague answer. But realistically, it's hard to say, unless, like I have an example of you know something that you guys have received that you're wanting. You want to kind of change. Right?
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, Liliana.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I think we should pause on questions right now and let you explain next steps. So how do people engage with you? What's coming in the pipeline? Going forward like, kind of your support system. Yeah, go ahead. Because then we're going to need to wrap.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Yeah, we have to wrap soon. So you know, a lot of my role is sourcing new companies for techstars and also supporting kind of companies in the in the cohort. So it's kind of those 2 separate things right? And the way that it'll support you, and the best way to I can support you is through a number of steps, and I'm gonna post this on base camp. So it's not just, you know. You have to take notes right now. But I'm gonna do like some sort of fundraising assessment for each one of your companies and just see like kind of where you'd fall
Sylvia Bouloutas: in terms of oh, ready to fundraise tomorrow, or, you know, might need to kind of do a little bit more work on the traction angle to, you know, be really ready. And then I'm going to host a couple of different office hours. Some of them are going to be, you know, in person. If you guys are in the bay, some of them can be virtual. It really just depends on what works.
Sylvia Bouloutas: And I'm gonna have some pre action items for these so like like, which means that you know, I find that if you just book time with me, and it's like this really theoretical discussion about, you know, some sort of like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: you know. Talk about the Vc. Landscape and stuff like I'm happy to also do that. But it's much more helpful for you if we, you know I come like with, or you come with, like, you know, really kind of an agenda, an action item so like things like, you know, mock Vc pitch sessions. I love doing where? You guys are able to kind of pitch to me, and I can pitch. I can, you know, ask you questions back as if it would be a Vc meeting.
Sylvia Bouloutas: So it's not necessary for deck feedback. It's actually just for the way that you're pitching. The second is for kind of fundraising strategy like, you know how you're putting around together. And the 3rd one is investor relationships. So like, Oh, I got this email from an investor, and I don't really understand what it means. Like, can we talk about it? These are kind of the 3 main ways that like.
Sylvia Bouloutas: I like to have calls with founders. And then, in addition, there's like ad hoc work that I can always do pitch, deck review and other investor materials, data, rooms, etc. So you're gonna you know, I I'm gonna need a little bit of time to review the material. So do account for like 48 h for me to like. Read it, review it, leave comments, etc. But these are some ways that I've been able to work with founders. And I'm building out a checklist which is essentially like how I can assess whether you're ready
Sylvia Bouloutas: for kind of investor introductions. And a lot of that is that your materials are really clean, but I feel like you've done one mock Vc pitch session with me that's really clean, and that, you know, you have the traction items that make Neil and I really confident that we can make introductions for you.
Sylvia Bouloutas: Does anyone have any questions about these.
Lilliana Robinson: I think everyone can post their questions below the base camp post once you post but the main point here is that Sylvia has these checkpoints that you need to get through before you can get her help. So she's not just here to like answer any questions offhand, or anything like that. You need to have completed the action items to prepare to access her time. So it's kind of like an unlock. And these are in place from years of experience. It's just best for our founders, and best to not waste Sylvia's time, since there are so many of you
Lilliana Robinson: so definitely make sure you read this through and you understand it. And once you post it on basecamp, you can post any questions there.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, cool. I'm glad that we did this second half, because we were able to answer a lot of really good questions. But at the end of the day, remember, we'll be here with you guys even post tech stars to go through this. So this is just to help level set the playing field. But we'll be here with you to answer any questions. Urgent voxers. We do it all the time for alumni. So no one should feel stressed. And at the end of the day you guys are gonna be set up for the best fundraising you could possibly do. Because you're gonna build a great business in this program.
Lilliana Robinson: Cool, Sylvia. Thank you so much. I'm going to stop the recording. And we'll talk to you guys this afternoon when you do your Oki presentations.